## Clinical Infectious Diseases

## IDSA GUIDELINE

# Practice Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of

# Aspergillosis: 2016 Update by the Infectious Diseases

# Society of America

Thomas F. Patterson,1,aGeorge R. Thompson III,^2 David W. Denning,^3 Jay A. Fishman,^4 Susan Hadley,5,bRaoul Herbrecht,^6 Dimitrios P. Kontoyiannis,^7
Kieren A. Marr,^8 Vicki A. Morrison,^9 M. Hong Nguyen,^10 Brahm H. Segal,^11 William J. Steinbach,^12 David A. Stevens,^13 Thomas J. Walsh,^14 John R. Wingard,^15
Jo-Anne H. Young,^16 and John E. Bennett17,a

(^1) University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio and South Texas Veterans Health Care System; (^2) University of California, Davis; (^3) National Aspergillosis Centre, University Hospital of South
Manchester, University of Manchester, United Kingdom;^4 Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, and^5 Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts;^6 University of Strasbourg,
France; 9 7 University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston;^8 Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, Maryland;
Hennepin County Medical Center and University of Minnesota, Minneapolis;^10 University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania;^11 University at Buffalo Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, and
Roswell Park Cancer Institute, New York;^12 Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina;^13 California Institute for Medical Research, San Jose;^14 New York–Presbyterian Hospital/Weill
Cornell Medical Center, New York;^15 University of Florida, Gainesville;^16 University of Minnesota, Minneapolis;^17 Laboratory of Clinical Infectious Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
It is important to realize that guidelines cannot always account for individual variation among patients. They are not intended to supplant
physician judgment with respect to particular patients or special clinical situations. IDSA considers adherence to these guidelines to be
voluntary, with the ultimate determination regarding their application to be made by the physician in the light of each patient’s individual
circumstances.
Keywords. aspergillosis; invasive aspergillosis; allergic aspergillosis; chronic aspergillosis; fungal diagnostics; azoles; echniocan-
dins; amphotericin.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Background
Aspergillusspeciescontinuetobeanimportantcauseoflife-threat-
ening infection in immunocompromised patients. This at-risk pop-
ulation is comprised of patients with prolonged neutropenia,
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), solid organ
transplant (SOT), inherited or acquired immunodeficiencies, corti-
costeroid use, and others. This document constitutes the guidelines
of the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) for treatment
of aspergillosis and replaces the practice guidelines forAspergillus
published in 2008. Since that publication, clinical studies evaluating
new and existing therapies including combination therapy for the
management ofAspergillusinfection have been conducted and the
data on use of non-culture-based biomarkers for diagnosing infec-
tion have been expanded. The objective of these guidelines is to
summarize the current evidence for treatment of different forms
ofaspergillosis.Thisdocumentreviewsguidelinesformanagement
of the 3 major forms of aspergillosis: invasive aspergillosis (IA);
chronic (and saprophytic) forms of aspergillosis; and allergic
forms of aspergillosis. Given the clinical importance of IA, empha-
sis is placed upon the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of the
different forms of IA, including invasive pulmonary aspergillosis
(IPA),Aspergillussinusitis, disseminated aspergillosis, and several
types of single-organ IA.
Summarized below are the 2016 recommendations for the
management of aspergillosis. Due to the guidelines’relevance
to pediatrics, the guideline has been reviewed and endorsed
by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS). The
panel followed a guideline development process that has
been adopted by IDSA, which includes use of the Grading of
Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation
(GRADE) system, a systematic method of grading both the
strength of the recommendation (weak or strong) and the qual-
ity of evidence (very low, low, moderate, and high) (Figure 1 ).
The guidelines are not intended to replace clinical judgment in
the management of individual patients. A detailed description
of the methods, background, and evidence summaries that
support each recommendation can be found in the full text of
the guideline.
EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RISK FACTORS FOR INFECTION
I. How Can the Most Susceptible Patients Be Protected From
Aspergillosis, and Which Patients Are Most Susceptible?
What Are Sources of Exposure to Aspergillus, and How Can
Exposure Be Decreased? Is Environmental Surveillance Useful?
Received 7 May 2016; accepted 11 May 2016.a
bT. F. P. and J. E. B. served as co-chairs for the IDSAAspergillusGuidelines Committee.
Deceased.
Correspondence: T. F. Patterson, Division of Infectious Diseases, San Antonio Center for Med-
ical Mycology, The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, 7703 Floyd Curl
Drive–MSC 7881, San Antonio, TX 78229-3900 (patterson@uthscsa.edu).
Clinical Infectious Diseases® 2016;63(4):433– 42
Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious Diseases Society of America 2016. This
work is written by (a) US Government employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.
DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciw

### Practice Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Aspergillosis•CID 2016:63 (15 August)• 433

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

Recommendations.

1. Hospitalized allogeneic HSCT recipients should be placed in
    a protected environment to reduce mold exposure(strong
    recommendation; low-quality evidence).
2. These precautions can be reasonably applied to other
    highly immunocompromised patients at increased risk for IA,
    such as patients receiving induction/reinduction regimens for
    acute leukemia(strong recommendation; low-quality evidence).
3. In hospitals in which a protected environment is not avail-
    able, we recommend admission to a private room, no con-
    nection to construction sites, and not allowing plants or
    cutflowers to be brought into the patient’s room(strong rec-
    ommendation; low-quality evidence).
4. We recommend reasonable precautions to reduce mold ex-
    posure among outpatients at high risk for IA, including
    avoidance of gardening, spreading mulch (compost), or
    close exposure to construction or renovation(strong recom-
    mendation; low-quality evidence).
       5. Leukemia and transplant centers should perform
          regular surveillance of cases of invasive mold infection. An
          increase in incidence over baseline or the occurrence of inva-
          sive mold infections in patients who are not at high risk for
          such infections should prompt evaluation for a hospital
          source (strong recommendation; low-quality evidence).

```
DIAGNOSIS OF ASPERGILLOSIS
II. How Can a Diagnosis of Invasive Aspergillosis Be Established?
How Should Aspergillus Be Identified, and How Does This
Influence Management?
Recommendation.
```
6. Until molecular tools are more widely used in clinical labo-
    ratories, we recommend that tissue andfluid specimens be
    submitted in adequate quantities for simultaneous histopath-
    ologic/cytologic and culture examination. In the case of iso-
    lates with atypical growth or concerns for resistance, species

Figure 1. Approach and implications to rating the quality of evidence and strength of recommendations using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development,
and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology (unrestricted use of the figure granted by the US GRADE Network) [ 1 ].

### 434 • CID 2016:63 (15 August)•Patterson et al

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

```
identification by molecular methods should be employed
(strong recommendation; high-quality evidence).
```
What Is the Diagnostic Value of Nucleic Acid Testing in Clinical
Specimens?
Recommendations.

7. There was debate among the committee members regarding
    the clinical utility of blood-based polymerase chain reaction
    (PCR) in diagnosing IA, and experts were not in agreement.
    One group favored recommendations for PCR testing, based
    on publications validating its role when used in conjunction
    with other tests such as antigen detection assays to diagnose
    IA and/or reduce preemptive antifungal usage. The other
    group thought that PCR assays are promising but could not
    be recommended for routine use in clinical practice at present
    due to the lack of conclusive validation for commercially avail-
    able assays, the variety of methodologies in the literature, and
    questions about the extent to which results assisted diagnosis.
8. As research in the area continues, we recommend that clinicians
    choosing to use PCR assays employ them carefully in the man-
    agement of individual patients on a case-by-case basis. Clini-
    cians should be aware of the methodologies and performance
    characteristics of the specific assay used, and interpret results ac-
    cordingly. When PCR assays are used, results should be consid-
    ered in conjunction with other diagnostic tests and the clinical
    context(strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).

How Should Galactomannan and (1!3)-β-D-Glucan Be Used for
the Diagnosis of Aspergillosis?
Recommendations.

9. Serum and BAL galactomannan (GM) is recommended as
    an accurate marker for the diagnosis of IA in adult and pe-
    diatric patients when used in certain patient subpopulations
    (hematologic malignancy, HSCT)(strong recommendation;
    high-quality evidence).
10. GM is not recommended for routine blood screening in pa-
    tients receiving mold-active antifungal therapy or prophylaxis,
    but can be applied to bronchoscopy specimens from those pa-
    tients(strong recommendation; high-quality evidence).
11. GM is not recommended for screening in SOT recipients or
    patients with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD)(strong
    recommendation; high-quality evidence).
12. Serum assays for (1→3)-β-D-glucan are recommended
    for diagnosing IA in high-risk patients (hematologic malig-
    nancy, allogeneic HSCT), but are not specific forAspergillus
    (strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).

What Is the Approach to the Radiographic Diagnosis of Invasive
Pulmonary Aspergillosis?
Recommendations.

13. We recommend performing a chest computed tomograph-
    ic (CT) scan whenever there is a clinical suspicion for IPA

```
regardless of chest radiograph results (strong recommenda-
tion; high-quality evidence).
```
14. Routine use of contrast during a chest CT scan for a sus-
    picion of IPA is not recommended (strong recommendation;
    moderate-quality evidence). Contrast is recommended when
    a nodule or a mass is close to a large vessel (strong recommen-
    dation; moderate-quality evidence).
15. We suggest a follow-up chest CT scan to assess the response
    of IPA to treatment after a minimum of 2 weeks of treatment;
    earlier assessment is indicated if the patient clinically deterio-
    rates (weak recommendation; low-quality evidence).When a
    nodule is close to a large vessel, more frequent monitoring
    may be required (weak recommendation; low-quality evidence).
What Is the Role of Bronchoscopy in the Diagnosis of Invasive
Pulmonary Aspergillosis?
Recommendation.
16. We recommend performing a bronchoscopy with bron-
choalveolar lavage (BAL) in patients with a suspicion of IPA
(strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).Signifi-
cant comorbidities such as severe hypoxemia, bleeding, and
platelet transfusion-refractory thrombocytopenia may pre-
clude BAL. The yield of BAL is low for peripheral nodular le-
sions, so percutaneous or endobronchial lung biopsy should
be considered. We recommend the use of a standardized
BAL procedure and sending the BAL sample for routine cul-
ture and cytology as well as non-culture-based methods (eg,
GM) (strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).

```
III. What Antifungal Agents Are Available for the Treatment and
Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillosis, Including Pharmacologic
Considerations, and What Is the Role for Susceptibility Testing?
Amphotericin B
Recommendations.
```
17. Amphotericin B (AmB) deoxycholate and its lipid deriva-
    tives are appropriate options for initial and salvage therapy
    ofAspergillusinfections when voriconazole cannot be admin-
    istered. However, AmB deoxycholate should be reserved for
    use in resource-limited settings in which no alternative agents
    are available. Lipid formulations of AmB should be considered
    in settings in which azoles are contraindicated or not tolerated
    (strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
18. Aerosolized formulations of AmB may be considered as pro-
    phylaxis in patients with prolonged neutropenia (patients re-
    ceiving induction/reinduction therapy for acute leukemia and
    allogeneic HSCT recipients following conditioning or during
    treatment of graft-vs-host disease [GVHD]) and in lung trans-
    plant recipients(weak recommendation; low-quality evidence).
Echinocandins
Recommendation.
19. Echinocandins are effective in salvage therapy (either
alone or in combination) against IA, but we do not

### Practice Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Aspergillosis•CID 2016:63 (15 August)• 435

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

```
recommend their routine use as monotherapy for the pri-
mary treatment of IA (strong recommendation; moderate-
quality evidence).
```
Triazoles
Recommendations.

20. Triazoles are preferred agents for treatment and prevention
    of IA in most patients (strong recommendation; high-quality
    evidence).
21. For patients receiving triazole-based therapy for IA, pro-
    longed azole prophylaxis, or other therapies for which drug
    interactions with azoles are anticipated, the committee rec-
    ommends therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) once the
    steady state has been reached. A moderate amount of data
    for itraconazole, voriconazole, and posaconazole suspension
    suggests this approach may be valuable in enhancing thera-
    peutic efficacy, in evaluating therapeutic failures attributable
    to suboptimal drug exposures, and to minimize toxicities po-
    tentially attributable to the azoles (strong recommendation;
    moderate-quality evidence). Further studies are needed to ad-
    dress whether TDM is helpful or necessary with the extended-
    release or intravenous formulations of posaconazole or for
    isavuconazole.
22. Clinicians should obtain serum trough drug levels for azole
    antifungal agents (itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole,
    and possibly isavuconazole) and for potentially interacting
    drugs such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus, and sirolimus (and
    other CYP3A4 substrates such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors)
    to optimize therapeutic efficacy and to avoid potential toxi-
    cities of both groups of agents (strong recommendation;
    moderate-quality evidence).

Preclinical and Laboratory Assessment of Combination Antifungal
Therapy

23. Combinations of polyenes or azoles with echinocandins
    suggest additive or synergistic effects in some preclinical
    studies. However, variable test designs and conflicting results
    of preclinical and in vitro testing have led to uncertainty as to
    how to interpret thefindings(weak recommendation; low-
    quality evidence).

When Should Antifungal Susceptibility Testing Be Performed,
and How Should Results Be Interpreted and Affect
Management?
Recommendation.

24. Routine antifungal susceptibility testing (AFST) of isolates
    recovered during initial infection is not recommended. AFST
    ofAspergillusisolates using a reference method is reserved
    for patients suspected to have an azole-resistant isolate or
    who are unresponsive to antifungal agents, or for epidemio-
    logical purposes(strong recommendation; moderate-quality
    evidence).

```
INVASIVE SYNDROMES OFASPERGILLUS
IV. What Are the Recommended Treatment Regimens and Adjunctive
Treatment Measures for the Various Clinical Presentation of Invasive
Aspergillosis?
How Should IPA Be Treated?
Recommendations.
```
25. We recommend primary treatment with voriconazole
    (strong recommendation; high-quality evidence).
26. Early initiation of antifungal therapy in patients with strongly
    suspected IPA is warranted while a diagnostic evaluation is con-
    ducted (strong recommendation; high-quality evidence).
27. Alternative therapies include liposomal AmB (strong rec-
    ommendation; moderate-quality evidence), isavuconazole
    (strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence), or
    other lipid formulations of AmB (weak recommendation;
    low-quality evidence).
28. Combination antifungal therapy with voriconazole and an
    echinocandin may be considered in select patients with docu-
    mented IPA (weak recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
29. Primary therapy with an echinocandin is not recommend-
    ed (strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
    Echinocandins (micafungin or caspofungin) can be used in
    settings in which azole and polyene antifungals are contrain-
    dicated (weak recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
30. We recommend that treatment of IPA be continued for a
    minimum of 6–12 weeks, largely dependent on the degree
    and duration of immunosuppression, site of disease, and ev-
    idence of disease improvement (strong recommendation; low-
    quality evidence).
31. For patients with successfully treated IPA who require sub-
    sequent immunosuppression, secondary prophylaxis should
    be initiated to prevent recurrence (strong recommendation;
    moderate-quality evidence).

```
Adjunctive Measures and Immunomodulation: When Should
Withdrawal of Immunosuppressive Agents, or Addition of Colony-
Stimulating Factors or Granulocyte Transfusions, Be Considered in
the Treatment of Invasive Aspergillosis?
Recommendations.
```
32. Reducing doses of, or eliminating altogether, immunosup-
    pressive agents, when feasible, is advised as a component of
    anti-Aspergillustherapy(strong recommendation; low-quality
    evidence).
33. Colony-stimulating factors may be considered in neutropenic
    patients with diagnosed or suspected IA(weak recommendation;
    low-quality evidence).There is insufficient evidence regarding
    the value of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor vs granulocyte
    macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) in this setting.
34. Granulocyte transfusions can be considered for neutrope-
    nic patients with IA that is refractory or unlikely to respond
    to standard therapy, and for an anticipated duration of more
    than one week(weak recommendation; low-quality evidence).

### 436 • CID 2016:63 (15 August)•Patterson et al

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

35. Recombinant interferon-γis recommended as prophylaxis
    in CGD patients(strong recommendation; high-quality evi-
    dence).Its benefit as adjunctive therapy for IA is unknown.
36. Surgery for aspergillosis should be considered for localized
    disease that is easily accessible to debridement (eg, invasive
    fungal sinusitis or localized cutaneous disease)(strong rec-
    ommendation; low-quality evidence).The benefitforIAin
    other settings such as in the treatment of endocarditis, oste-
    omyelitis, or focal central nervous system (CNS) disease ap-
    pears rational. Other indications are less clear and require
    consideration of the patient’s immune status, comorbidities,
    confirmation of a single focus, and the risks of surgery.

When Is It Safe to Proceed With Chemotherapy or Transplantation
in a Patient With Invasive Aspergillosis?
Recommendations.

37. IA is not an absolute contraindication to additional che-
    motherapy or HSCT(strong recommendation; moderate-
    quality evidence).
38. Decisions about when to proceed with additional chemo-
    therapy or HSCT following the diagnosis of aspergillosis
    should involve both infectious diseases specialists and hema-
    tologists/oncologists. These decisions must consider the risk of
    progressive aspergillosis during periods of subsequent anti-
    neoplastic treatment vs the risk of death from the underlying
    malignancy if this treatment is delayed(strong recommenda-
    tion; low-quality evidence).

What Approaches Are Needed for Refractory or Progressive
Aspergillosis (Salvage Therapy)?
Recommendations.

39. We recommend an individualized approach that takes into
    consideration the rapidity, severity, and extent of infection, pa-
    tient comorbidities, and to exclude the emergence of a new
    pathogen(strong recommendation; low-quality evidence).
    The general strategies for salvage therapy typically include
    (i) changing the class of antifungal, (ii) tapering or reversal
    of underlying immunosuppression when feasible, and (iii)
    surgical resection of necrotic lesions in selected cases.
40. In the context of salvage therapy, an additional antifungal
    agent may be added to current therapy, or combination
    antifungal drugs from different classes other than those in
    the initial regimen may be used(weak recommendation;
    moderate-quality evidence).
41. In patients currently receiving an antifungal and exhibiting
    an adverse event attributable to this agent, we recommend
    changing to an alternative class of antifungal, or the use of
    an alternative agent with a nonoverlapping side-effect profile
    (strong recommendation; low-quality evidence).
42. For salvage therapy, agents include lipid formulations of
    AmB, micafungin, caspofungin, posaconazole, or itracona-
    zole. The use of a triazole as salvage therapy should take

```
into account prior antifungal therapy, host factors, pharma-
cokinetic considerations, and possible antifungal resistance
(strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
```
```
How Can Biomarkers Be Used to Assess Patient Response to Therapy?
Recommendations.
```
43. Serial monitoring of serum GM can be used in the appro-
    priate patient subpopulations(hematologic malignancy,
    HSCT) who have an elevated GM at baseline to monitor dis-
    ease progression and therapeutic response, and predict out-
    come (strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
44. (1→3)-β-D-glucan has not been extensively studied in IA
    to predict outcome (weak recommendation; low-quality
    evidence).
What Are the Recommended Treatments for Pediatric Patients
With Aspergillosis?
Recommendation.
45. Treatment of aspergillosis in children uses the same recom-
mended therapies as in adult patients; however, the dosing is
different and for some antifungals is unknown(strong recom-
mendation; high-quality evidence).
What Are Treatment Options for Aspergillosis of the Airways in
Transplant and Nontransplant Recipients, and How Does It Differ
From Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis?
Recommendations.
46. Saprophytic forms of tracheobronchial aspergillosis (TBA)
do not require antifungal treatment except for symptomatic
or immunosuppressed patients. Treatment includes broncho-
scopic removal of mucoid impaction. Mold-active triazole
agents are recommended for immunocompromised patients
in whom the possibility of invasive disease cannot be eliminat-
ed(strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
47. Bronchocentric granulomatosis is treated in the same fash-
ion as allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA)
(strong recommendation; low-quality evidence).
48. Invasive forms of TBA are treated with a mold-active triazole
or intravenous lipid formulations of AmB(strong recom-
mendation; moderate-quality evidence).We also recommend
minimization or reversal of underlying immunosuppression
when feasible, and bronchoscopic debridement of airway le-
sions in selected cases(strong recommendation; low-quality
evidence).
49. In lung transplant recipients, we recommend treatment
with a systemic antimold antifungal for TBA, including sap-
rophytic forms. We also recommend adjunctive inhaled
AmB in the setting of TBA associated with anastomotic en-
dobronchial ischemia or ischemic reperfusion injury due to
airway ischemia associated with lung transplant(strong rec-
ommendation; moderate-quality evidence).Duration of anti-
fungal therapy is at least 3 months or until TBA is completely
resolved, whichever is longer.

### Practice Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Aspergillosis•CID 2016:63 (15 August)• 437

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

MANAGEMENT OF EXTRAPULMONARY
ASPERGILLOSIS

What Are the Treatment Considerations for Central Nervous
System Aspergillosis?
Recommendation.

50. We recommend voriconazole as primary therapy for CNS
    aspergillosis (strong recommendation; moderate-quality
    evidence). Lipid formulations of AmB are reserved for
    those intolerant or refractory to voriconazole (strong recom-
    mendation; moderate-quality evidence).

How Is Aspergillus Endophthalmitis Treated?
Recommendation.

51. We recommend thatAspergillusendophthalmitis be treat-
    ed with systemic oral or intravenous voriconazole plus intra-
    vitreal voriconazole or intravitreal AmB deoxycholate (strong
    recommendation; weak-quality evidence).

What Is the Role of Surgery in Aspergillosis of the Paranasal
Sinuses?
Recommendation.

52. We recommend that both surgery and either systemic vor-
    iconazole or a lipid formulation of AmB be used in invasive
    Aspergillusfungal sinusitis but that surgical removal alone
    can be used to treatAspergillusfungal ball of the paranasal
    sinus. Enlargement of the sinus ostomy may be needed to
    improve drainage and prevent recurrence (strong recommen-
    dation; moderate-quality evidence).

What Are the Treatment Recommendations for Aspergillus
Endocarditis, Pericarditis, and Myocarditis?
Recommendation.

53. InAspergillusendocarditis, we recommend early surgical
    intervention combined with antifungal therapy in attempts
    to prevent embolic complications and valvular decompensa-
    tion(strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
    Voriconazole or a lipid formulation of AmB is recommended
    as initial therapy (strong recommendation; low-quality evi-
    dence). Following surgical replacement of an infected valve,
    lifelong antifungal therapy should be considered (strong rec-
    ommendation; low-quality evidence).

What Are the Treatment Recommendations for Aspergillus
Osteomyelitis and Septic Arthritis?
Recommendation.

54. Surgical intervention is recommended, where feasible, for
    management ofAspergillusosteomyelitis and arthritis, com-
    bined with voriconazole (strong recommendation; moderate-
    quality evidence).

What Are the Treatment Recommendations for Cutaneous
Aspergillosis?

```
Recommendations.
```
55. As cutaneous lesions may reflect disseminated infection,
    we recommend treatment with voriconazole in addition to
    evaluation for a primary focus of infection(strong recom-
    mendation; low-quality evidence).
56. In cases of aspergillosis in burns or massive soft tissue
    wounds, surgical debridement is recommended, in addition
    to antifungal therapy(strong recommendation; moderate-
    quality evidence).

```
What Are the Treatment Recommendations for Aspergillus
Peritonitis?
Recommendation.
```
57. We recommend prompt peritoneal dialysis catheter re-
    moval accompanied by systemic antifungal therapy with vor-
    iconazole(strong recommendation; low-quality evidence).

```
What Are the Treatment Recommendations for Esophageal,
Gastrointestinal, and Hepatic Aspergillosis?
Recommendations.
```
58. We suggest voriconazole and surgical consultation in
    attempts to prevent complications of hemorrhage, perfora-
    tion, obstruction, or infarction(weak recommendation;
    low-quality evidence).
59. We suggest antifungal therapy with voriconazole or a lipid
    formulation of AmB as initial therapy for hepatic aspergillo-
    sis. For extrahepatic or perihepatic biliary obstruction, or lo-
    calized lesions that are refractory to medical therapy, surgical
    intervention should be considered(weak recommendation;
    low-quality evidence).

```
What Are the Treatment Recommendations for Renal
Aspergillosis?
Recommendation.
```
60. We suggest a combined approach of medical and urologic
    management for renal aspergillosis. Obstruction of one or
    both ureters should be managed with decompression if possi-
    ble and local instillation of AmB deoxycholate. Parenchymal
    disease is best treated with voriconazole(weak recommenda-
    tion; low-quality evidence).

```
What Are the Treatment Regimens for Aspergillus Ear Infections?
Recommendations.
```
61. NoninvasiveAspergillusotitis externa, also called otomy-
    cosis, is treated by thorough mechanical cleansing of the
    external auditory canal followed by topical antifungals or
    boric acid (strong recommendation; moderate-quality
    evidence).
62. We recommend that clinicians treat IA of the ear with a
    prolonged course of systemic voriconazole, usually combined
    with surgery (strong recommendation; low-quality evidence).

### 438 • CID 2016:63 (15 August)•Patterson et al

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

What Are the Treatment Recommendations for Aspergillus
Keratitis?
Recommendation.

63. We recommend that clinicians treatAspergilluskeratitis
    with topical natamycin 5% ophthalmic suspension or topical
    voriconazole (strong recommendation; moderate-quality
    evidence).

How Should Aspergillus Bronchitis Be Diagnosed and Treated
in the Nontransplant Population?
Recommendations.

64. We suggest the diagnosis ofAspergillusbronchitis in non-
    transplant patients be confirmed by detection ofAspergillus
    spp in respiratory secretions, usually sputum, with both PCR
    and GM on respiratory samples being much more sensitive
    than culture(weak recommendation; low-quality evidence).
65. We suggest treatment with oral itraconazole or voriconazole
    with TDM(weak recommendation; low-quality evidence).

PROPHYLAXIS OF INVASIVE ASPERGILLOSIS

V. What Are the Recommended Prophylactic Regimens, Who Should
Receive Them, and How Should Breakthrough Infection Be Managed?
In Which Patients Should Antifungal Prophylaxis Against
Aspergillosis Be Used?
Recommendation.

66. We recommend prophylaxis with posaconazole (strong rec-
    ommendation; high-quality evidence), voriconazole (strong
    recommendation; moderate-quality evidence), and/or mica-
    fungin (weak recommendation; low-quality evidence) during
    prolonged neutropenia for those who are at high risk for IA
    (strong recommendation; high-quality evidence). Prophylaxis
    with caspofungin is also probably effective (weak recommen-
    dation; low-quality evidence). Prophylaxis with itraconazole
    is effective, but therapy may be limited by absorption and tol-
    erability (strong recommendation; moderate-quality evi-
    dence). Triazoles should not be coadministered with other
    agents known to have potentially toxic levels with concurrent
    triazole coadministration (eg, vinca alkaloids, and others)
    (strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).

What Are the Recommended Prophylactic Regimens for Patients
With Graft-Versus-Host Disease?
Recommendations.

67. We recommend prophylaxis with posaconazole for allo-
    geneic HSCT recipients with GVHD who are at high risk
    for IA (strong recommendation; high-quality evidence).
    Prophylaxis with other mold-active azoles is also effective.
    Voriconazole is commonly used for prophylaxis against IA
    in high-risk patients but did not show improved survival in
    clinical trials (strong recommendation; moderate-quality
    evidence).Prophylaxis with itraconazole is limited by

```
tolerability and absorption (strong recommendation; high-
quality evidence).
```
68. We recommend continuation of antifungal prophylaxis
    throughout the duration of immunosuppression in patients
    with chronic immunosuppression associated with GVHD
    (corticosteroid equivalent of >1 mg/kg/day of prednisone
    for >2 weeks and/or the use of other anti-GVHD therapies,
    such as lymphocyte-depleting agents, or tumor necrosis fac-
    torα(TNF-α) inhibition, for refractory GVHD) (strong rec-
    ommendation; high-quality evidence).
What Are the Recommendations for Antifungal Prophylaxis in
Lung Transplant Patients?
Recommendations.
69. We recommend antifungal prophylaxis with either a sys-
temic triazole such as voriconazole or itraconazole or an in-
haled AmB product for 3 to 4 months after lung transplant
(strong recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
70. Systemic voriconazole or itraconazole is suggested over in-
haled AmB for lung transplant recipients with mold coloni-
zation pre- or post–lung transplant, mold infections found in
explanted lungs, fungal infections of the sinus, and single-
lung transplant recipients(weak recommendation; low-qual-
ity evidence).
71. We recommend reinitiating antifungal prophylaxis for
lung transplant recipients receiving immunosuppression
augmentation with either thymoglobulin, alemtuzumab, or
high-dose corticosteroids(strong recommendation; moder-
ate-quality evidence).
What Are the Recommendations for Antifungal Prophylaxis in
Nonlung Solid Organ Transplant Recipients?
Recommendation.
72. We recommend prophylactic strategies in SOT recipients
based on the institutional epidemiology of infection and
assessment of individual risk factors(strong recommenda-
tion; low-quality evidence). Prospective trials are lacking to
address the need for routine anti-Aspergillusprophylaxis
other than for lung transplant recipients. Individual risk
factors have been identified in cardiac (pretransplant colo-
nization, reoperation, cytomegalovirus [CMV] infection,
renal dysfunction, institutional outbreak), liver (fulminant
hepatic failure, reoperation, retransplantation, or renal fail-
ure), and others with institutional outbreaks or prolonged
or high-dose corticosteroid use. In such patients, the opti-
mal duration of prophylaxis is not known.

```
MANAGEMENT OF BREAKTHROUGH INFECTION
How Should Breakthrough Aspergillosis Be Managed?
Recommendation.
```
73. We suggest an individualized approach that takes into con-
    sideration the rapidity and severity of infection and local

### Practice Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Aspergillosis•CID 2016:63 (15 August)• 439

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

```
epidemiology. As principles, we recommend an aggressive
and prompt attempt to establish a specificdiagnosiswith
bronchoscopy and/or CT-guided biopsy for peripheral lung
lesions. Documentation of serum azole levels should be ver-
ified if TDM is available for patients receiving mold-active
triazoles. Antifungal therapy should be empirically changed
to an alternative class of antifungal withAspergillusactivity.
Other considerations include reduction of underlying im-
munosuppression if feasible, and susceptibility testing of
anyAspergillusisolates recovered from the patient(weak
recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
```
VI. When Should Patients Be Treated Empirically?
What Strategies Are Recommended for Empiric and Preemptive
Strategies in Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant
Recipients and Patients Treated for Acute Myelogenous Leukemia?
Recommendations.

74. Empiric antifungal therapy is recommended for high-risk
    patients with prolonged neutropenia who remain persistently
    febrile despite broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy. Antifungal
    options include a lipid formulation of AmB(strong recommen-
    dation; high-quality evidence),anechinocandin(caspofungin
    or micafungin)(strong recommendation; high-quality evi-
    dence), or voriconazole(strong recommendation; moderate-
    quality evidence).
75. Empiric antifungal therapy is not recommended for
    patients who are anticipated to have short durations
    of neutropenia (duration of neutropenia <10 days),
    unless otherfindings indicate a suspected invasive fungal in-
    fection (IFI)(strong recommendation; moderate-quality
    evidence).
76. The use of serum or BAL fungal biomarkers such as GM or
    (1→3)-β-D-glucan to guide antifungal therapy in asymp-
    tomatic or febrile high-risk patients (often referred to as pre-
    emptive or biomarker-driven antifungal therapy) can reduce
    unnecessary antifungal therapy. The preemptive approach
    can result in more documented cases of IA without compro-
    mise in survival and can be used as an alternative to empiric
    antifungal therapy (strong recommendation; moderate-
    quality evidence).
77. Early initiation of antifungal therapy in patients with
    strongly suspected IPA is warranted while a diagnostic
    evaluation is conducted(strong recommendation; moderate-
    quality evidence).
78. Management of suspected or documented breakthrough
    IPA in the context of mold-active azole prophylaxis or em-
    piric suppressive therapy is not defined by clinical trial
    data, but a switch to another drug class is suggested(weak
    recommendation; low-quality evidence).

How Do Lung Transplant Recipients Differ From Other
Immunosuppressed Patients in Management of Suspected Invasive
Pulmonary Aspergillosis?

```
Recommendations.
```
79. In lung transplant recipients not on antimold prophylaxis, we
    suggest preemptive therapy with an antimold antifungal for
    asymptomatic patients withAspergilluscolonization of the air-
    ways within 6 months of lung transplant or within 3 months of
    receiving immunosuppression augmentation for rejection
    (weak recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
80. Six months after lung transplant and in the absence of re-
    cent immunosuppression augmentation for rejection, it may
    be prudent to withhold antifungal therapy forAspergillusair-
    way colonization (ie,Aspergillusrespiratory cultures in the
    absence of clinical features that suggest disease, such as com-
    patible symptoms, or bronchoscopic, histopathologic, and/or
    radiographicfindings)(weak recommendation; low-quality
    evidence).
CHRONIC AND SAPROPHYTIC SYNDROMES OF
ASPERGILLUS
VII. How Should Chronic Aspergillosis, Allergic Syndromes, or
Noninvasive Syndromes Be Managed?
How Can Chronic Cavitary Pulmonary Aspergillosis Be Diagnosed
and Treated?
Recommendations.
81. The diagnosis of chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis
(CCPA) requires: (i) 3 months of chronic pulmonary symp-
toms or chronic illness or progressive radiographic abnor-
malities, with cavitation, pleural thickening, pericavitary
infiltrates, and sometimes a fungal ball; (ii)AspergillusIgG
antibody elevated or other microbiological data; and (iii)
no or minimal immunocompromise, usually with one or
more underlying pulmonary disorders. TheAspergillusIgG
antibody test is the most sensitive microbiological test(strong
recommendation; moderate-quality evidence). SputumAsper-
gillusPCR testing is more sensitive than culture (weak recom-
mendation; moderate-quality evidence).
82. Patients with CCPA without pulmonary symptoms, weight
loss, or significant fatigue, and those without major impairment
of pulmonary function or gradual loss of pulmonary function
may be observed without antifungal therapy and followed every
3 – 6months(weak recommendation; low-quality evidence).
83. Patients with CCPA and either pulmonary or general
symptoms or progressive loss of lung function or radiograph-
ic progression should be treated with a minimum of 6
months of antifungal therapy(strong recommendation; low-
quality evidence).
84. Oral itraconazole and voriconazole are the preferred oral
antifungal agents(strong recommendation; high-quality evi-
dence); posaconazole is a useful third-line agent for those
with adverse events or clinical failure(strong recommenda-
tion; moderate-quality evidence).
85. Hemoptysis may be managed with oral tranexamic acid
(weak recommendation; low-quality evidence),bronchial

### 440 • CID 2016:63 (15 August)•Patterson et al

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

```
artery embolization(strong recommendation; moderate-
quality evidence), or antifungal therapy to prevent recurrence
(strong recommendation; low-quality evidence). Patients
failing these measures may require surgical resection(weak
recommendation; moderate-quality evidence).
```
86. In those who fail therapy, develop triazole resistance,
    and/or have adverse events, intravenous micafungin(weak
    recommendation; low-quality evidence),caspofungin(weak
    recommendation; low-quality evidence),orAmB(weak rec-
    ommendation; low-quality evidence)yield some responses.
    Treatment may need to be prolonged.
87. Surgical resection is an option for some patients with
    localized disease, unresponsive to medical therapy, including
    those with pan-azole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus
    infection or persistent hemoptysis despite bronchial
    artery embolization(strong recommendation; moderate-
    quality evidence).The outcomes from surgery are less favor-
    able than those with single aspergilloma, and a careful risk
    assessment prior to surgical intervention is required.
88. In those with progressive disease, long-term, even lifelong
    antifungal therapy may be required to control disease(weak
    recommendation; low-quality evidence), with continual mon-
    itoring for toxicity and resistance.

What Are the Management Options for an Aspergillus Fungal Ball
of the Lung (Aspergilloma)?
Recommendations.

89. Asymptomatic patients with a single aspergilloma and no
    progression of the cavity size over 6–24 months should con-
    tinuetobeobserved(strong recommendation; moderate-
    quality evidence).
90. Patients with symptoms, especially significant hemoptysis,
    with a single aspergilloma, should have it resected, assuming
    that there are no contraindications(strong recommendation;
    moderate-quality evidence).
91. Peri-/postoperative antifungal therapy is not routinely re-
    quired, but if the risk of surgical spillage of the aspergilloma
    is moderate (related to location and morphology of the
    cavity), antifungal therapy with voriconazole (or another
    mold-active azole) or an echinocandin is suggested to prevent
    Aspergillusempyema(weak recommendation; low-quality
    evidence).

ALLERGIC SYNDROMES OFASPERGILLUS

How Is Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis Identified and
Managed in Patients With Asthma and Cystic Fibrosis?
Recommendations.

92. ElevatedAspergillusimmunoglobulin E (IgE) and total IgE
    are recommended to establish the diagnosis and are useful
    for screening(strong recommendation; high-quality evidence).
       93. We suggest treating symptomatic asthmatic patients
          with bronchiectasis or mucoid impaction, despite oral or
          inhaled corticosteroid therapy, with oral itraconazole
          therapy with TDM(weak recommendation; low-quality
          evidence).
       94. In CF patients with frequent exacerbations and/or falling
          forced expiratory volume 1 (FEV 1 ), we suggest treating
          with oral itraconazole to minimize corticosteroid use
          with TDM, and consideration of other mold-active azole
          therapy if therapeutic levels cannot be achieved(weak rec-
          ommendation; low-quality evidence).
What Is the Medical Management of Allergic Fungal
Rhinosinusitis Caused by Aspergillus Species?
Recommendations.
95. We recommend establishing the diagnosis of allergic fun-
gal rhinosinusitis in patients with nasal polyposis and thick
eosinophilic mucin by visualizing hyphae in mucus, which is
supported by a positive anti-AspergillusIgE serum antibody
assay or skin-prick test (where available)(strong recommen-
dation; moderate-quality evidence).
96. We recommend polypectomy and sinus washout as the
optimal means of symptom control and inducing remis-
sion; however, relapse is frequent(strong recommendation;
moderate-quality evidence).
97. We recommend the use of topical nasal steroids to reduce
symptoms and increase time to relapse, especially if given
after surgery(strong recommendation; moderate-quality
evidence).
98. We suggest oral antifungal therapy using mold-active tria-
zoles for refractory infection and/or rapidly relapsing disease,
although this approach is only partially effective(weak rec-
ommendation; low-quality evidence).

```
Notes
Dedication. The panel dedicates these guidelines to the memory of our
dear friend Susan Hadley, MD, a core member of the Mycoses Study Group,
caring physician, and wonderful colleague.
Acknowledgments. The Expert Panel expresses its gratitude for
thoughtful reviews of an earlier version by Sanjay Revankar and Samuel
Lee. The Panel also greatly appreciates the work of Charles B. Wessels
and Michele Klein Fedyshin of the Health Sciences Library System of the
University of Pittsburgh for the development and execution of the system-
atic literature searches for this guideline. We give special thanks to Genet
Demisashi of the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) staff for
her support in the development of this guideline.
Financial support. Supportforthisguidelinewasprovidedbythe
IDSA.
Potential conflicts of interest. The following list is a reflection of what
has been reported to IDSA. To provide thorough transparency, IDSA re-
quires full disclosure of all relationships, regardless of relevancy to the guide-
line topic. Evaluation of such relationships as potential conflicts of interest
(COI) is determined by a review process that includes assessment by the
Standards and Practice Guideline Committee (SPGC) Chair, the SPGC liai-
son to the development panel, the Board of Directors liaison to the SPGC,
and, if necessary, the COI Task Force of the Board. This assessment of
```
### Practice Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Aspergillosis•CID 2016:63 (15 August)• 441

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```

disclosed relationships for possible COI will be based on the relative weight
of thefinancial relationship (ie, monetary amount) and the relevance of
the relationship (ie, the degree to which an association might reasonably
be interpreted by an independent observer as related to the topic or recom-
mendation of consideration). The reader of these guidelines should be
mindful of this when the list of disclosures is reviewed. For activities outside
the submitted work, T. F. P. received research grant support to the Univer-
sity of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio from Astellas, Merck, and
Revolution Medicines and has been a consultant for or served on advisory
boards to Amplyx, Astellas, Durata, Cidara Therapeutics, Gilead, Merck,
Pfizer, Revolution Medicines, Scynexis, Toyama, Vical, and Viamet. For
activities outside of the submitted work, G. R. T. received research support
to the University of California, Davis from Astellas, Merck, Pfizer, and Scy-
nexis, and has been a consultant for Astellas. For activities outside the
submitted work, D. W. D. holds Founder shares in F2G Ltd, a University
of Manchester spin-out antifungal discovery company and in Novocyt,
which markets the Myconostica real-time molecular assays; has current
grant support from the National Institute of Health Research, Medical Re-
search Council, Global Action Fund for Fungal Infections, and the Fungal
Infection Trust; serves as a consultant to Astellas, Sigma Tau, Basilea, and
Pulmocide; and has received honoraria from Astellas, Dynamiker, Gilead,
Merck, and Pfizer. For activities outside the submitted work, J. A. F. served
on scientific advisory boards for Revolution Medicines. For activities outside
the submitted work, S. H. served as a consultant to Merck. For activities
outside the submitted work, R. H. served on advisory boards for Astellas,
Basilea, Gilead, and Pfizer and received research grants from Alsace contre
le Cancer and Pfizer. For activities outside the submitted work, D. P. K.
served as a consultant to Astellas, Merck, and Pfizer; received research sup-
port from Astellas, Merck, Pfizer, and T2 Biosystems; and received

```
honoraria from Astellas, Merck, Pfizer, T2 Biosystems, Gilead, and F2G,
Inc. For activities outside the submitted work, K. A. M. received honoraria
from Amplyx, Astellas, Cidara, F2G, Merck, Pfizer, Revolutions Medicine,
and Vical, and has a patent US No. 13/511 264 licensed. For activities out-
side the submitted work, V. A. M. served as a consultant for Celgene,
Amgen, GSK, Merck, and Astellas, and served on the speaker’s bureaus
for Genentech and Celgene. For activities outside the submitted work,
M. H. N. received research grants from Astellas, Pfizer, Merck, ViraCor,
and the National Institutes of Health (National Institute of Allergy and In-
fectious Diseases). For activities outside the submitted work, B. H. S. served
on advisory boards for Merck and Astellas, and has contracts for laboratory
research from Astellas and Assembly Biosciences. For activities outside the
submitted work, W. J. S. served on scientific advisory boards from Merck
and received research grants to Duke University from Merck and Astellas.
For activities outside the submitted work, T. J. W. served as a consultant or
scientific advisor for Astellas, Novartis, Pfizer, and Methlygene and received
research grants to Weill Cornell Medical Center from Astellas, Merck, and No-
vartis. For activities outside the submitted work, J. R. W. served as consultant/
scientific advisor for Gilead, Astellas, Pfizer, Merck, and Vical. For activities
outside the submitted work, J. H. Y. received research support to the University
of Minnesota from Astellas, Merck, and Pfizer. All other authors report no po-
tential conflicts. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of
Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the
content of the manuscript have been disclosed.
```
```
Reference
```
1. US GRADE Network. Approach and implications to rating the quality of evidence
    and strength of recommendations using the GRADE methodology. Available at:
    [http://www.gradeworkinggroup.org/.](http://www.gradeworkinggroup.org/.) Accessed 1 April 2016.

### 442 • CID 2016:63 (15 August)•Patterson et al

```
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/63/4/433/2595105 by guest on 29 July 2024
```


